VehicularNetworks
=================

In this thesis we extract the road network from OpenSteetMaps? project, import it in Scilab as a graph and apply different mobility models. These are: the Random Way Point model, the Markov Chain model, the Nomadic Model and the Reference Point Group Mobility Model. The vehicles at the simulations are moving in a realistic way by choosing the shortest path, following the streets maximum speed and traffic limitation. We also apply random Points of Interest on the map from where vehicles tend to pass more often.

A mobile ad-hoc network (MANET) is a self-configuring collection of wireless mobile nodes (devices) that have no network infrastructure or centralized administration. They are temporarily connected depending on the distance. Nodes move randomly in free space changing speed and direction. One of the most interesting areas of MANET is vehicular ad-hoc networking (VANET). In a VANET mobile nodes are vehicles moving on the streets. Therefore, there exist some constraints compared to MANET. Nodes are moving on restricted lines, following the direction of the street with speed usually similar with other vehicles on the same street. Nodes usually use the shortest path from one area to another. They do not tend to make circles or return to the position they just left. They do not stop immediately but they accelerate or decelerate. In this thesis we extract the road network of an area and we simulate and test several mobility models in a realistic way.
